<!-- loio3c470e82554145658a5029d7a1dca4a0 -->

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/sap-icons.css"/>

# Process Source Changes in the Data Access Control Editor

If the permissions entity that is consumed by your data access control is modified, then the next time you open the data access control, you will be asked to process the changes. If the source change has generated warnings or errors in your data access control, its status will be updated and you will receive a notification inviting you to review the changes.



<a name="loio3c470e82554145658a5029d7a1dca4a0__context_dv5_swm_mpb"/>

## Context

Your object's status may be updated when changes to one or more of its sources are saved or deployed:

-   If no warnings or errors were generated by the source changes, then the status will not be changed.
-   If warnings or errors were generated by the source changes and:
    -   Source changes were saved but not deployed, your object's status will be set to *Design-Time Error*.
    -   Source changes were saved and deployed, your object's status will be set to *Run-Time Error*.




<a name="loio3c470e82554145658a5029d7a1dca4a0__steps_pzc_34t_4sb"/>

## Procedure

1.  If a source change has generated warnings or errors in your view, you will receive a notification inviting you to review them, and you can click the notification to open it directly.

    The *Source Updates* dialog opens, listing the sources that have been modified.

2.  Click *OK* to dismiss the dialog. The following validation messages may be displayed:


    <table>
    <tr>
    <th valign="top">

    Change


    
    </th>
    <th valign="top">

    Impact in Dependent Data Access Controls


    
    </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Add Column


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Adding columns to the permissions entity has no impact on the data access control.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Change Business Name


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Modifying the business name of the permissions entity or any of its columns has no impact on the data access control


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Change Column Data Type


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Source column data type changes are not allowed for columns that are used by a data access control.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Delete Column


    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Deleting columns from the permissions entity generates errors in dependent data access controls if the columns are used:

    -   If the column was selected as the *Identifier Column*, an error message is displayed. You must specify a new column in this field.
    -   If the column was selected as a column in the *Criteria* list, an error message is displayed. You must remove this column from the *Criteria* list.

        > ### Note:  
        > You cannot add new criteria columns to a data access control that is used by views. If this change is necessary, we recommend that you create a new data access control with the additional columns and use it to replace the existing data access control in the views to which it is attached.



    
    </td>
    </tr>
    </table>
    
3.  Once you have processed the modifications to the *Identifier Column* or *Criteria* list, and if your data access control is applied to any views, warning messages are displayed urging you to review the impacted views to ensure that the changes have not compromised row level security.

4.  Click <span class="FPA-icons"></span> \(Save\) to save the changes to your object and dismiss any info and warning messages.

    If the source changes were saved but not deployed, your object's status should change from *Design-Time Error* to *Changes to Deploy*.

    > ### Note:  
    > As the new version of your object depends on the source updates, you should coordinate with the person who has modified the source about deployment. The new version of your object will work correctly in the run-time only when both it and its source are deployed.

5.  Click <span class="SAP-icons"></span> \(Deploy\) to deploy your object.

    Your object's status should change from *Changes to Deploy* \(or *Run-Time Error*\) to *Deployed*.


