<!-- loio702350c755d24d629545de04673acb1b -->

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/sap-icons.css"/>

# Process Source Changes in the Graphical View Editor

If one or more of the sources of your graphical view is modified, then the next time you open the view, you will be asked to process the changes. If a source change has generated warnings or errors in your view, its status will be updated and you will receive a notification inviting you to review the changes.



<a name="loio702350c755d24d629545de04673acb1b__context_dv5_swm_mpb"/>

## Context

Your object's status may be updated when changes to one or more of its sources are saved or deployed:

-   If no warnings or errors were generated by the source changes, then the status will not be changed.
-   If warnings or errors were generated by the source changes and:
    -   Source changes were saved but not deployed, your object's status will be set to *Design-Time Error*.
    -   Source changes were saved and deployed, your object's status will be set to *Run-Time Error*.




<a name="loio702350c755d24d629545de04673acb1b__Steps_Source_Changes"/>

## Procedure

1.  If a source change has generated warnings or errors in your view, you will receive a notification inviting you to review them, and you can click the notification to open it directly.

    The *Source Updates* dialog opens, listing the sources that have been modified.

    > ### Note:  
    > If the changes do not generate warnings or errors \(for example, new columns are available\), you will not receive a notification, but the dialog will still be displayed the next time that you open the view.

2.  Click *OK* to dismiss the dialog and open the diagram. The following validation messages may be displayed:


    <table>
    <tr>
    <th valign="top">

    Change in Source
    
    </th>
    <th valign="top">

    Impact in Dependent Views
    
    </th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Add Column
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Columns added to source tables or views are excluded by default from the output of dependent views:

    -   An information message listing all new columns is displayed on the source.
    -   The new columns are excluded in a projection node directly after the source. If no projection node was previously present, then one is added.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Change Business Name
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Changes to the business name and other business properties of a source table or view or its columns are automatically propagated to dependent objects:

    -   An information message specifying the source object changes or listing all changed columns is displayed on the source.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Change Column Data Type
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Changes column data types in source tables or views generate warnings in dependent views:

    -   An information message listing all columns with changed data types is displayed on the source.
    -   An information message listing all columns with changed data types present in the output node *Columns* list is displayed on the output node.
    -   If output columns with changed data types are used by any dependent objects of this view, then a warning message listing those views is displayed on the output node.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Delete Column
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Deletions of columns in source tables or views generate errors in dependent views if the columns are used in these views:

    -   An information message listing all deleted columns is displayed on the source.
    -   An error message is displayed on any intermediate node \(join, union, filter, calculated columns, aggregation\) in which a deleted column was used.
    -   A warning message listing all deleted columns that were previously present in the output node *Columns* list is displayed on the output node.
    -   If deleted output columns were used by any dependent objects of this view, then a warning message listing those views is displayed on the output node.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Change to Input Parameter
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Changes to input parameters in source views generate messages in dependent views:

    -   An information message listing all input parameter changes is displayed on the source.
    -   An error or warning is displayed on the source for each input parameter that is added, deleted, or changed.
    -   An error message is displayed on any intermediate node \(join, union, filter, calculated columns, aggregation\) in which a deleted input parameter was used.

    > ### Note:  
    > If an input parameter that has a default value is added to a source view, then this source input parameter is, by default, mapped to the default value in dependent views. You can override this default mapping and map the source input parameter to an input parameter in the dependent view.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Change to Data Access Control
    
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
    
    Changes to a data access control generate warnings in views to which they are attached:

    -   A warning message is displayed on the output node to encourage you to review the changes before redeploying the view.


    
    </td>
    </tr>
    </table>
    
3.  Review all information and warning messages to ensure that they do not adversely impact the output of your view.

    > ### Note:  
    > If you want to include a new source column in your view output, select it in the projection node and click <span class="FPA-icons"></span> \(Menu\)** \> *Restore Column*.

4.  Review and resolve any error messages on intermediate nodes.

5.  Click <span class="FPA-icons"></span> \(Save\) to save the changes to your object and dismiss any info and warning messages.

    If the source changes were saved but not deployed, your object's status should change from *Design-Time Error* to *Changes to Deploy*.

    > ### Note:  
    > As the new version of your object depends on the source updates, you should coordinate with the person who has modified the source about deployment. The new version of your object will work correctly in the run-time only when both it and its source are deployed.

6.  Click <span class="SAP-icons"></span> \(Deploy\) to deploy your object.

    Your object's status should change from *Changes to Deploy* \(or *Run-Time Error*\) to *Deployed*.


