<!-- loiof7e43ced828940178efb3143c2956d9d -->

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/sap-icons.css"/>

# Process Source Changes in the SQL View Editor

If one or more of the sources of your SQL view is modified, and the changes have generated warnings or errors in your view, its status will be updated and you will receive a notification inviting you to review them.



<a name="loiof7e43ced828940178efb3143c2956d9d__context_dv5_swm_mpb"/>

## Context

Your object's status may be updated when changes to one or more of its sources are saved or deployed:

-   If no warnings or errors were generated by the source changes, then the status will not be changed.
-   If warnings or errors were generated by the source changes and:
    -   Source changes were saved but not deployed, your object's status will be set to *Design-Time Error*.
    -   Source changes were saved and deployed, your object's status will be set to *Run-Time Error*.




## Procedure

1.  If a source change has generated warnings or errors in your view, you will receive a notification inviting you to review them, and you can click the notification to open it directly.

2.  Click the *Validate and Preview SQL Data* tool and review and correct any errors that appear in the *Errors* panel.

    > ### Note:  
    > Changes to source view input parameters are not shown in validation messages and must be processed manually.

3.  If a data access control that is attached to your view has changed, a warning message is displayed on the side panel to encourage you to review the changes before redeploying the view.

4.  Click <span class="FPA-icons"></span> \(Save\) to save the changes to your object and dismiss any info and warning messages.

    If the source changes were saved but not deployed, your object's status should change from *Design-Time Error* to *Changes to Deploy*.

    > ### Note:  
    > As the new version of your object depends on the source updates, you should coordinate with the person who has modified the source about deployment. The new version of your object will work correctly in the run-time only when both it and its source are deployed.

5.  Click <span class="SAP-icons"></span> \(Deploy\) to deploy your object.

    Your object's status should change from *Changes to Deploy* \(or *Run-Time Error*\) to *Deployed*.


